0.6.0 Changelog updates (#689)
PennyLaneAI/catalyst: doc/changelog.md

  [(#650)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/650)
  [(#649)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/649)
  [(#661)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/661)
  [(#686)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/686)
  [(#689)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/689)

  The following two callback functions are available:

  - `catalyst.pure_callback` supports callbacks of **pure** functions. That is, functions
    with no side-effects that accept parameters and return values. However, the return
    type and shape of the function must be known in advance, and is provided as a type signature.

    ```python
    @catalyst.pure_callback
    def callback_fn(x) -> float:
        # here we call non-JAX compatible code, such
        # as standard NumPy
        return np.sin(x)

    @qml.qjit
    def fn(x):
        return jnp.cos(callback_fn(x ** 2))
    ```
    ```pycon
    >>> fn(0.654)
    array(0.9151995)
    ```

  - `catalyst.debug.callback` supports callbacks of functions with **no** return values. This makes it
    an easy entry point for debugging, for example via printing or logging at runtime.

    ```python

>     @catalyst.debug.callback

Author: @dime10 I went back through the changelog and docstrings and made everything consistent

# Release 0.6.0

<h3>New features</h3>

> * Catalyst now supports externally hosted callbacks with parameters and return values

Reviewer: Goes in blog

  3 2 1
  ```

  Note that previous functionality of the print function to print out memory reference information
  of variables has been moved to `catalyst.debug.print_memref`.

* Catalyst now supports QNodes that execute on [Oxford Quantum Circuits (OQC)](https://www.oqc.tech/)
  superconducting hardware, via [OQC Cloud](https://docs.oqc.app).
  [(#578)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/578)
  [(#579)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/579)
  [(#691)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/691)

>   To use OQC Cloud with Catalyst, simply ensure your credentials are set as environment variables, and load the `oqc.remote` device to be used within your qjit-compiled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To use OQC Cloud with Catalyst, simply ensure your credentials are set as environment variables, and load the `oqc.cloud` device to be used within your qjit-compiled
```

Author: thanks!

  3 2 1
  ```

  Note that previous functionality of the print function to print out memory reference information
  of variables has been moved to `catalyst.debug.print_memref`.

> * Catalyst now supports QNodes that execute on [Oxford Quantum Circuits (OQC)](https://www.oqc.tech/)

Reviewer: Goes in blog

  Instrumentation can be enabled from the frontend with the `catalyst.debug.instrumentation`
  context manager:

  ```pycon
  >>> @qjit
  ... def expensive_function(a, b):
  ...     return a + b
  >>> with debug.instrumentation("session_name", detailed=False):
  >>>     expensive_function(1, 2)
  [DIAGNOSTICS] Running capture                   walltime: 3.299 ms      cputime: 3.294 ms       programsize: 0 lines
  [DIAGNOSTICS] Running generate_ir               walltime: 4.228 ms      cputime: 4.225 ms       programsize: 14 lines
  [DIAGNOSTICS] Running compile                   walltime: 57.182 ms     cputime: 12.109 ms      programsize: 121 lines
  [DIAGNOSTICS] Running run                       walltime: 1.075 ms      cputime: 1.072 ms  
  ```

  The results will be appended to the provided file if the `filename` attribute is set, and printed
  to the console otherwise. The flag `detailed` determines whether individual steps in the compiler
  and runtime are instrumented, or whether only high-level steps like "program capture" and

>   "compilation" are reported.

Reviewer 3: Loosely, it just means that something else will happen beside the normal execution flow. :) Normally it means that some statistics will be collected.

  custom call (which happens through the mitigation operation).

* Catalyst now supports devices built from the
  [new PennyLane device API](https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/code/api/pennylane.devices.Device.html).
  [(#565)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/565)
  [(#598)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/598)
  [(#599)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/599)
  [(#636)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/636)
  [(#638)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/638)
  [(#664)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/664)

  When using the new device API, Catalyst will discard the preprocessing from the original device,
  replacing it with Catalyst-specific preprocessing based on the TOML file provided by the device.
  Catalyst also requires that provided devices specify their wires upfront.

* A new compiler optimization that removes redundant chains of self inverse operations has been
  added. This is done within a new MLIR pass called `remove-chained-self-inverse`. Currently we
  only match redundant Hadamard operations, but the list of supported operations can be expanded.

>   [(#630)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/630)

Reviewer: TLDR: if there is a hadamard then hadamard inverse, catalyst removes the two ops. It's a compilation level simplify

>   [(#630)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/630)

Reviewer: like this (https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/code/api/pennylane.transforms.cancel_inverses.html) but only for hadamard gates lol

* The `catalyst.measure` can now receive 1D arrays for the `wires` parameter as long as they only

>   contain one element.

Author: Thanks!

  [(#554)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/554)

  For more details on the new TOML schema, please refer to the
  [custom devices documentation](https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/catalyst/en/latest/dev/custom_devices.html).

* An exception is now raised when OpenBLAS cannot be found by Catalyst during compilation.
  [(#643)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/643)

<h3>Breaking changes</h3>

* `qml.sample` and `qml.counts` now produce integer arrays for the sample array and basis state
  array when used without observables.
  [(#648)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/648)

* The endianness of counts in Catalyst now matches the convention of PennyLane.
  [(#601)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/601)

* `catalyst.debug.print` no longer supports the `memref` keyword argument.
  Please use `catalyst.debug.print_memref` instead.
  [(#621)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/621)

<h3>Bug fixes</h3>

* The transform `measurement_from_counts` used for processing circuits for devices
  has been updated following an update of a private function in PennyLane.

>   [(#687)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/687)

Author: Good call, I'll move this up.

* The QNode argument `diff_method=None` is now supported for QNodes within a qjit-compiled function.
  [(#658)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/658)

* Allow all Catalyst gates to receive `wire` values of less than 64 bitwidth.
  [(#623)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/623)

* A bug has been fixed where the C++ compiler driver was incorrectly being triggered twice.
  [(#594)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/594)

* Adds lowering pass for `shape` operations. This allows programs with `jnp.reshape` to succeed.
  [(#592)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/592)

> * Fixes adjoint lowering bug that did not take into account control wires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed a bug with `adjoint` that did not take into account control wires.
```

  [(#591)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/591)

* A bug in the test suite causing stochastic autograph test failures has been fixed.
  [(#652)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/652)

* Running tests should no longer raise `ResourceWarning` from `tempfile.TemporaryDirectory`.
  [(#676)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/676)

<h3>Internal changes</h3>

> * The deprecated `@qfunc` decorator, in use mainly by the LIT test suite, has been removed.

Reviewer: 🔥

  [(#679)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/pull/679)

> * Catalyst publishes Git revision string seen at the time of the packaging as
>   `catalyst.__revision__` . For editable installations, the revision is read at the time of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Catalyst publishes the Git revision string seen at the time of the packaging as
  `catalyst.__revision__`. For editable installations, the revision is read at the time of
```
